README.md, before:

# Particular

<p align="center">
  <img src="./particular-showcase.gif">
</p>

[![MIT/Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT%2FApache-blue.svg)](https://github.com/canleskis/particular#license)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/particular)](https://crates.io/crates/particular)
[![Docs](https://docs.rs/particular/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/particular)

Particular is a crate providing a simple way to simulate N-body gravitational interaction of particles in Rust.

## Goals

The main goal of this crate is to provide users with a simple API to setup N-body gravitational simulations that can easily be integrated into existing game and physics engines.
Thus it does not include numerical integration or other similar tools and instead only focuses on the acceleration calculations.

Currently, provided [`ComputeMethods`] are naive and iterate over the particles and sum the acceleration caused by the `massive` particles.
I will likely provide algorithms such as e.g. [Barnes-Hut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnes%E2%80%93Hut_simulation) in the future.

Particular can be used with a parallel implementation on the CPU thanks to the [rayon](https://github.com/rayon-rs/rayon) crate. Enable the "parallel" feature to access the available compute methods.

# Using Particular

The API to setup a simulation is straightforward:

## Implementing the `Particle` trait

#### Deriving

Used in most cases, when the type has fields named `position` and `mu`:

```rust
# use particular::prelude::*;
# use glam::Vec3;
#
#[derive(Particle)]
pub struct Body {
    position: Vec3,
    mu: f32,
//  ...
}
```

#### Manual implementation

Used when the type has more complex fields and cannot directly provide a position and a gravitational parameter.

```rust
struct Body {
    position: Vec3,
    mass: f32,
//  ...
}

impl Particle for Body {
    type Scalar = f32;
    type Vector = Vec3;

    fn position(&self) -> Vec3 {
        self.position
    }
    
    fn mu(&self) -> f32 {
        self.mass * G
    }
}
```

## Setting up the simulation

Using the type implementing `Particle`, create a `ParticleSet` that will contain the particles.

`Particles` are stored in two vectors, `massive` or `massless`, depending on if they have mass or not.
This allows optimizations for objects that are affected by gravitational bodies but don't affect them back, e.g. a spaceship.

```rust
let mut particle_set = ParticleSet::new();
particle_set.add(Body { position, mu });
```

## Computing and using the gravitational acceleration

Finally, use the `result` method of `ParticleSet`.
It returns an iterator over a mutable reference to a `Particle` and its computed gravitational acceleration using the provided `ComputeMethod`.

```rust
let mut particle_set = ParticleSet::<Body>::new();
let cm = &mut sequential::BruteForce;

for (acceleration, particle) in particle_set.result(cm) {
    particle.velocity += acceleration * DT;
    particle.position += particle.velocity * DT;
}
```

## Contribution

PRs are welcome!

Commit message:

add CPU & GPU brute force compute methods

README.md, after:

# Particular

<p align="center">
  <img src="./particular-showcase.gif">
</p>

[![MIT/Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT%2FApache-blue.svg)](https://github.com/canleskis/particular#license)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/particular)](https://crates.io/crates/particular)
[![Docs](https://docs.rs/particular/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/particular)

Particular is a crate providing a simple way to simulate N-body gravitational interaction of particles in Rust.

## Goals

The main goal of this crate is to provide users with a simple API to setup N-body gravitational simulations that can easily be integrated into existing game and physics engines.
Thus it does not include numerical integration or other similar tools and instead only focuses on the acceleration calculations.

Currently, provided [`ComputeMethods`] are naive and iterate over the particles and sum the acceleration caused by the `massive` particles.
I will likely provide algorithms such as e.g. [Barnes-Hut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnes%E2%80%93Hut_simulation) in the future.

Particular can be used with a parallel implementation on the CPU thanks to the [rayon](https://github.com/rayon-rs/rayon) crate. Enable the "parallel" feature to access the available compute methods.

Particular can also be used on the GPU thanks to [wgpu](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu). Enable the "gpu" feature to access the available compute methods.

# Using Particular

The API to setup a simulation is straightforward:

## Implementing the `Particle` trait

#### Deriving

Used in most cases, when the type has fields named `position` and `mu`:

```rust
# use particular::prelude::*;
# use glam::Vec3;
#
#[derive(Particle)]
pub struct Body {
    position: Vec3,
    mu: f32,
//  ...
}
```

#### Manual implementation

Used when the type has more complex fields and cannot directly provide a position and a gravitational parameter.

```rust
struct Body {
    position: Vec3,
    mass: f32,
//  ...
}

impl Particle for Body {
    type Scalar = f32;
    type Vector = Vec3;

    fn position(&self) -> Vec3 {
        self.position
    }
    
    fn mu(&self) -> f32 {
        self.mass * G
    }
}
```

## Setting up the simulation

Using the type implementing `Particle`, create a `ParticleSet` that will contain the particles.

`Particles` are stored in two vectors, `massive` or `massless`, depending on if they have mass or not.
This allows optimizations for objects that are affected by gravitational bodies but don't affect them back, e.g. a spaceship.

```rust
let mut particle_set = ParticleSet::new();
particle_set.add(Body { position, mu });
```

## Computing and using the gravitational acceleration

Finally, use the `result` method of `ParticleSet`.
It returns an iterator over a mutable reference to a `Particle` and its computed gravitational acceleration using the provided `ComputeMethod`.

```rust
let mut particle_set = ParticleSet::<Body>::new();
let cm = &mut sequential::BruteForce;

for (acceleration, particle) in particle_set.result(cm) {
    particle.velocity += acceleration * DT;
    particle.position += particle.velocity * DT;
}
```

## Contribution

PRs are welcome!
